content/edugraphics/2012-02-12-when-to-use-the-word-gay-print.md, before:

---
title: When to use the word “gay”
author: Sam Killermann
type: post
date: 2012-02-12T00:14:57+00:00
excerpt: "A printer-friendly visual aid for your printing pleasures. What is gay, and what isn't."
url: /2012/02/when-to-use-the-word-gay-print/
featured_image: /wp-content/uploads/2012/02/When-its-Okay-To-Use-the-Word-Gay.jpg
downloadable_pdf:
  - 987
categories: 
  # - Gender
   - Sexuality
  # - Social Justice
tags:
  # - Activism
   - Allyship
   - Being Inclusive
   - Education
  # - Guide to Gender
  # - LGBTQ
   - LGB
  # - Trans
   - How-To
  # - Identity
  # - List
  # - Privilege
  # - Rant
  # - Religion
   - Start Here
  # - Shorties
  # - Social Justice Dogma
   - Terminology
  # - Public Thinking
  # - TMI
---
<a style="float: right;" href="/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/1600-When-its-Okay.jpg" target="_blank"><img class="lazy-load" data-src="/wp-content/themes/thesis/custom/images/view-hi-resolution-jpg.jpg" alt="View the Hi-Resolution .JPG" /></a>

This graphic was originally created to support [this article][1], but then a comment was made saying this should be hung on every dorm wall in America.  A tall order, but at least we can make it an accomplishable one.  Print and hang away, friends.  It&#8217;s yours.

 [1]: /2011/12/if-you-call-someone-gay-he-better-be-a-guy-who-likes-guys/ "If you call someone gay, he better be a guy who likes guys."

Commit message:

wire up all the downloadable PDFs

content/edugraphics/2012-02-12-when-to-use-the-word-gay-print.md, after:

---
title: When to use the word “gay”
author: Sam Killermann
type: post
date: 2012-02-12T00:14:57+00:00
excerpt: "A printer-friendly visual aid for your printing pleasures. What is gay, and what isn't."
url: /2012/02/when-to-use-the-word-gay-print/
featured_image: /wp-content/uploads/2012/02/When-its-Okay-To-Use-the-Word-Gay.jpg
download: /wp-content/uploads/2012/02/1600-When-its-Okay.jpg
categories: 
  # - Gender
   - Sexuality
  # - Social Justice
tags:
  # - Activism
   - Allyship
   - Being Inclusive
   - Education
  # - Guide to Gender
  # - LGBTQ
   - LGB
  # - Trans
   - How-To
  # - Identity
  # - List
  # - Privilege
  # - Rant
  # - Religion
   - Start Here
  # - Shorties
  # - Social Justice Dogma
   - Terminology
  # - Public Thinking
  # - TMI
---

When is it "okay" to say gay? Why is this even a question we need to be asking? Well, because it seems that people have some misconceptions, and this flowchart makes it simple.

This graphic was originally created to support [this article][1], but then a comment was made saying this should be hung on every dorm wall in America.  A tall order, but at least we can make it an accomplishable one.  Print and hang away, friends.  It&#8217;s yours.

Click the .PDF download button, or just [click here](/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/1600-When-its-Okay.jpg), and you'll get a high-resolution enough image to print.


 [1]: /2011/12/if-you-call-someone-gay-he-better-be-a-guy-who-likes-guys/ "If you call someone gay, he better be a guy who likes guys."
